docs/simplefoc_library/hardware/microcontrollers.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Microcontrollers
parent: Supported Hardware
nav_order: 4
description: "Arduino Simple Field Oriented Control (FOC) library ."
permalink: /microcontrollers
grand_parent: Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span>
---

# Supported microcontrollers


The <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span> supports Arduino and STM32 devices off the shelf, using Arduino IDE, and with small modifications probably many more. 

 Board | Name | Specifications | Link | Price
---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
[<img src="extras/Images/arduino_uno.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-rev3-smd) | Arduino UNO | ATMega328 <br>- 5V logic<br> - 6 PWMs<br>- 2 interrupts<br>- 16Mhz| [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/NEW-Arduino-UNO-R3-ATMEGA328P-CH340G-Microcontroller-Board-Bootloader-USB/323962801627?hash=item4b6db00ddb:g:ihUAAOSwLc1dNWCd)<br> [Arudino Store](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-rev3-smd) | 5€<br>25€ 
[<img src="extras/Images/mega.png" class="imgtable150">](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-mega-2560-rev3) | Arduino Mega |  ATMega2560 <br>- 5V logic<br> - 15 PWMs<br>- 6 interrupts<br>- 16Mhz | [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/MEGA-2560-R3-Development-Board-CH340G-ATMEGA-2560-Kit-USB-Cable-For-Arduino-New/253764643649?epid=25019988960&_trkparms=ispr%3D1&hash=item3b158d2b41:g:C44AAOSwomJapjfF&enc=AQAEAAACYIQvEcHUrT7nmUC3yY5qbPyaBN1nJEDYW8MyypsJPgXK3AqiNsU0sSphPu4g6Qid31UfuUmxbibd03S6nwGFOtPRQtA6b7fwyQa%2BlHjHz58lNHKPszpYYTTo0kkJEDqmhf4Wiz0dmrGPE5aFjKQswyzpK0%2FagGHK8e518kkvgI15vEk3BEXEnW%2BgpNypJKacwMKe1INf06jl%2BrC%2FW50ef2gL1FPUQyUq9fK4Rm4tPSr28E52usHYczBDbdMdghFUExt3Ge%2B0iSj4t%2BcsyM2NGC%2BjCDDA8FBe3W5K8wg80e2DQwtM1R8Bpxrt6qJdyWZWigo8m4dpWLS%2Brmys9YJWASnU6mnFZoy4SLPUBLFK560rONYnB7aPohtZNJ%2BjCJPDLOQISm6tmGZVF5fMNu6iLYwYG8WG7J3c7rGVeUiDnJdf%2Fz68BNLAvth%2FnSoI9w7Jau%2Fd19gx3WYQbxgipDAmxgrVhGYlPrEvTSqCLIno1u3W%2FTI7FhSpNW%2Bgzw94kG%2FFgR9ieLRyv9p0w%2BYY3rrJepqCtlCJNkKflPpj4WAcXxBHHaQLJOr2mr7E2wRdwTBstIdCtoMmIp%2BjTRJFApIoT7fnEEIcMZyfLvbQZtemIQKHxpuibWKjQZU99awWsbMBlE0SRWaxRhML5YGORIjmgbIUyFdy9fiWHDcRpoKQJPsV6N3HUkRg9yU9cZ0m5w4ywXpiv7vHA8JFZg7hy5INiPGWwcxTRabpanq%2FWCB%2Bb4AN6%2BFP4%2Bqes86XVNe0YemDM1cBQWiHHjGxAHbw8gWuCZvXoc7XsJE5lrmQTsB1%2F%2FG6&checksum=253764643649687cd36869924033b58b75e082ef568d)<br>[Arduino Store](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-mega-2560-rev3) | 10€<br>35€ 
[<img src="extras/Images/nucleo.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://www.mouser.fr/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F446RE?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduj0LE%252BzmDN2WNd7nDNNMR7%2Fr%2FThuKnpWrd0IvwHkOHrpg%3D%3D) | Nucleo-64 boards | (ex. Nucleo F446RE)<br>- 3.3V logic<br> - 20 PWMs <br>- all pins interrupts<br>- 180Mhz | [Mouser](https://www.mouser.fr/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F446RE?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduj0LE%252BzmDN2WNd7nDNNMR7%2Fr%2FThuKnpWrd0IvwHkOHrpg%3D%3D) | 15€
[<img src="extras/Images/bluepill.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://www.ebay.com/itm/STM32F103C8T6-ARM-STM32-Dev-Development-Board-Module-Blue-Pill-BluePill/292145343898?hash=item4405382d9a:g:nZoAAOSwH-dZ6oaf) | Bluepill | (ex. STM32F103C8)<br>- 3.3V logic<br> - 15 PWMs <br>- all pins interrupts<br>- 72Mhz | [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/STM32F103C8T6-ARM-STM32-Dev-Development-Board-Module-Blue-Pill-BluePill/292145343898?hash=item4405382d9a:g:nZoAAOSwH-dZ6oaf) | 5€
[<img src="extras/Images/pinout.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://www.ebay.com/itm/HMBGC-V2-0-3-Axle-Gimbal-Controller-Control-Plate-Board-Module-with-Sensor/351497840990?hash=item51d6e7695e:g:BAsAAOSw0QFXBxrZ:rk:1:pf:1) | HMBGC V2.2 |  ATMega328<br> -5V logic<br> - 6 PWMs <br>- 0 interrupts<br> - No SPI<br>- 16Mhz <br> - 2x BLDC driver | [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/HMBGC-V2-0-3-Axle-Gimbal-Controller-Control-Plate-Board-Module-with-Sensor/351497840990?hash=item51d6e7695e:g:BAsAAOSw0QFXBxrZ:rk:1:pf:1) | 20€
[<img src="extras/Images/bgc_30.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/4000411471994.html?spm=a2g0o.productlist.0.0.5d047d57y4zGC4&algo_pvid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed&algo_expid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed-1&btsid=0ab6f83a15906954691168349e30d7&ws_ab_test=searchweb0_0,searchweb201602_,searchweb201603_) | BGC 3.0 |  ATMega328<br>- 5V logic<br> - 6 PWMs <br>- 0 interrupts<br> - 16Mhz <br> - 2x BLDC driver | [Aliexpress](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/4000411471994.html?spm=a2g0o.productlist.0.0.5d047d57y4zGC4&algo_pvid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed&algo_expid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed-1&btsid=0ab6f83a15906954691168349e30d7&ws_ab_test=searchweb0_0,searchweb201602_,searchweb201603_) | 10€



I have been in contact with people who have ported the library to the Maple boards, ESP32 boards, Arduino DUEs even to strom32 BGC v1.31, so I hope to be able to support much more boards in future.

<h2><i class="fa fa-lg"><svg id="fab-discourse" style="width:20px;fill:#44a8fa" viewBox="0 0 448 512"><path d="M225.9 32C103.3 32 0 130.5 0 252.1 0 256 .1 480 .1 480l225.8-.2c122.7 0 222.1-102.3 222.1-223.9C448 134.3 348.6 32 225.9 32zM224 384c-19.4 0-37.9-4.3-54.4-12.1L88.5 392l22.9-75c-9.8-18.1-15.4-38.9-15.4-61 0-70.7 57.3-128 128-128s128 57.3 128 128-57.3 128-128 128z"></path> </svg></i> <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span> Community</span></h2>

If you have ported the library to another device or you are searching for help to port it to some specific device don't hesitate to post in [community forum](https://community.simplefoc.com) 

It is always helpful to hear the stories/problems/suggestions of people implementing the code and you might find a lot of answered questions there already! 

<div class="image_icon width80" >
    <a href="https://community.simplefoc.com" target="_blank">
        <img src="extras/Images/community.png" >
        <i class="fa fa-external-link-square fa-2x"></i>
    </a>
</div>

Commit message:

DOCS added stm32duino package

docs/simplefoc_library/hardware/microcontrollers.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Microcontrollers
parent: Supported Hardware
nav_order: 4
description: "Arduino Simple Field Oriented Control (FOC) library ."
permalink: /microcontrollers
grand_parent: Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span>
---

# Supported microcontrollers


The <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span> supports Arduino and STM32 devices off the shelf, using Arduino IDE, and with small modifications probably many more. 

 Board | Name | Specifications | Link | Price
---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
[<img src="extras/Images/arduino_uno.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-rev3-smd) | Arduino UNO | ATMega328 <br>- 5V logic<br> - 6 PWMs<br>- 2 interrupts<br>- 16Mhz| [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/NEW-Arduino-UNO-R3-ATMEGA328P-CH340G-Microcontroller-Board-Bootloader-USB/323962801627?hash=item4b6db00ddb:g:ihUAAOSwLc1dNWCd)<br> [Arudino Store](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-rev3-smd) | 5€<br>25€ 
[<img src="extras/Images/mega.png" class="imgtable150">](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-mega-2560-rev3) | Arduino Mega |  ATMega2560 <br>- 5V logic<br> - 15 PWMs<br>- 6 interrupts<br>- 16Mhz | [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/MEGA-2560-R3-Development-Board-CH340G-ATMEGA-2560-Kit-USB-Cable-For-Arduino-New/253764643649?epid=25019988960&_trkparms=ispr%3D1&hash=item3b158d2b41:g:C44AAOSwomJapjfF&enc=AQAEAAACYIQvEcHUrT7nmUC3yY5qbPyaBN1nJEDYW8MyypsJPgXK3AqiNsU0sSphPu4g6Qid31UfuUmxbibd03S6nwGFOtPRQtA6b7fwyQa%2BlHjHz58lNHKPszpYYTTo0kkJEDqmhf4Wiz0dmrGPE5aFjKQswyzpK0%2FagGHK8e518kkvgI15vEk3BEXEnW%2BgpNypJKacwMKe1INf06jl%2BrC%2FW50ef2gL1FPUQyUq9fK4Rm4tPSr28E52usHYczBDbdMdghFUExt3Ge%2B0iSj4t%2BcsyM2NGC%2BjCDDA8FBe3W5K8wg80e2DQwtM1R8Bpxrt6qJdyWZWigo8m4dpWLS%2Brmys9YJWASnU6mnFZoy4SLPUBLFK560rONYnB7aPohtZNJ%2BjCJPDLOQISm6tmGZVF5fMNu6iLYwYG8WG7J3c7rGVeUiDnJdf%2Fz68BNLAvth%2FnSoI9w7Jau%2Fd19gx3WYQbxgipDAmxgrVhGYlPrEvTSqCLIno1u3W%2FTI7FhSpNW%2Bgzw94kG%2FFgR9ieLRyv9p0w%2BYY3rrJepqCtlCJNkKflPpj4WAcXxBHHaQLJOr2mr7E2wRdwTBstIdCtoMmIp%2BjTRJFApIoT7fnEEIcMZyfLvbQZtemIQKHxpuibWKjQZU99awWsbMBlE0SRWaxRhML5YGORIjmgbIUyFdy9fiWHDcRpoKQJPsV6N3HUkRg9yU9cZ0m5w4ywXpiv7vHA8JFZg7hy5INiPGWwcxTRabpanq%2FWCB%2Bb4AN6%2BFP4%2Bqes86XVNe0YemDM1cBQWiHHjGxAHbw8gWuCZvXoc7XsJE5lrmQTsB1%2F%2FG6&checksum=253764643649687cd36869924033b58b75e082ef568d)<br>[Arduino Store](https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-mega-2560-rev3) | 10€<br>35€ 
[<img src="extras/Images/nucleo.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://www.mouser.fr/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F446RE?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduj0LE%252BzmDN2WNd7nDNNMR7%2Fr%2FThuKnpWrd0IvwHkOHrpg%3D%3D) | Nucleo-64 boards | (ex. Nucleo F446RE)<br>- 3.3V logic<br> - 20 PWMs <br>- all pins interrupts<br>- 180Mhz | [Mouser](https://www.mouser.fr/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F446RE?qs=%2Fha2pyFaduj0LE%252BzmDN2WNd7nDNNMR7%2Fr%2FThuKnpWrd0IvwHkOHrpg%3D%3D) | 15€
[<img src="extras/Images/bluepill.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://www.ebay.com/itm/STM32F103C8T6-ARM-STM32-Dev-Development-Board-Module-Blue-Pill-BluePill/292145343898?hash=item4405382d9a:g:nZoAAOSwH-dZ6oaf) | Bluepill | (ex. STM32F103C8)<br>- 3.3V logic<br> - 15 PWMs <br>- all pins interrupts<br>- 72Mhz | [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/STM32F103C8T6-ARM-STM32-Dev-Development-Board-Module-Blue-Pill-BluePill/292145343898?hash=item4405382d9a:g:nZoAAOSwH-dZ6oaf) | 5€
[<img src="extras/Images/pinout.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://www.ebay.com/itm/HMBGC-V2-0-3-Axle-Gimbal-Controller-Control-Plate-Board-Module-with-Sensor/351497840990?hash=item51d6e7695e:g:BAsAAOSw0QFXBxrZ:rk:1:pf:1) | HMBGC V2.2 |  ATMega328<br> -5V logic<br> - 6 PWMs <br>- 0 interrupts<br> - No SPI<br>- 16Mhz <br> - 2x BLDC driver | [Ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/HMBGC-V2-0-3-Axle-Gimbal-Controller-Control-Plate-Board-Module-with-Sensor/351497840990?hash=item51d6e7695e:g:BAsAAOSw0QFXBxrZ:rk:1:pf:1) | 20€
[<img src="extras/Images/bgc_30.jpg" class="imgtable150">](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/4000411471994.html?spm=a2g0o.productlist.0.0.5d047d57y4zGC4&algo_pvid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed&algo_expid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed-1&btsid=0ab6f83a15906954691168349e30d7&ws_ab_test=searchweb0_0,searchweb201602_,searchweb201603_) | BGC 3.0 |  ATMega328<br>- 5V logic<br> - 6 PWMs <br>- 0 interrupts<br> - 16Mhz <br> - 2x BLDC driver | [Aliexpress](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/4000411471994.html?spm=a2g0o.productlist.0.0.5d047d57y4zGC4&algo_pvid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed&algo_expid=861ada4b-b12f-4019-be84-fae9870a12ed-1&btsid=0ab6f83a15906954691168349e30d7&ws_ab_test=searchweb0_0,searchweb201602_,searchweb201603_) | 10€

I have been in contact with people who have ported the library to the Maple boards, ESP32 boards, Arduino DUEs even to strom32 BGC v1.31, so I hope to be able to support much more boards in future.


## STM32 boards support
The STM32 boards are supported using the [STM32Duino package](https://github.com/stm32duino), it is completely open-source and can be installed directly through the `Arduino Board Manager`.
Please check the [STM32Duino wiki](https://github.com/stm32duino/wiki/wiki/Getting-Started) to see a detailed guide how to install the package and all its functionalities.

<h2><i class="fa fa-lg"><svg id="fab-discourse" style="width:20px;fill:#44a8fa" viewBox="0 0 448 512"><path d="M225.9 32C103.3 32 0 130.5 0 252.1 0 256 .1 480 .1 480l225.8-.2c122.7 0 222.1-102.3 222.1-223.9C448 134.3 348.6 32 225.9 32zM224 384c-19.4 0-37.9-4.3-54.4-12.1L88.5 392l22.9-75c-9.8-18.1-15.4-38.9-15.4-61 0-70.7 57.3-128 128-128s128 57.3 128 128-57.3 128-128 128z"></path> </svg></i> <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span> Community</span></h2>

If you have ported the library to another device or you are searching for help to port it to some specific device don't hesitate to post in [community forum](https://community.simplefoc.com) 

It is always helpful to hear the stories/problems/suggestions of people implementing the code and you might find a lot of answered questions there already! 

<div class="image_icon width80" >
    <a href="https://community.simplefoc.com" target="_blank">
        <img src="extras/Images/community.png" >
        <i class="fa fa-external-link-square fa-2x"></i>
    </a>
</div>
