docs/simplefoc_shield/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span>
description: "Arduino Simple Field Oriented Control (FOC) library ."
nav_order: 2
permalink: /arduino_simplefoc_shield_showcase
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---


# Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span> 

This is an open-source low-cost Brushless DC (BLDC) motor driver board intended primarily for low-power FOC applications up to 5Amps. The board is fully compatible with the Arduino UNO and all the boards with the standard Arduino headers.
The <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span>, in combination with  the <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span> provides *user-friendly* way to control BLDC motors both in hardware and software.    

### YouTube demonstration video

<iframe class="youtube" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G5pbo0C6ujE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Features
- **Plug & play**: Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span> 
- **Low-cost**: Price of €20 - [Check the pricing](https://simplefoc.com/simplefoc_shield_product) 
- **Open Source**: Fully available [Gerber files and BOM](arduino_simplefoc_shield_fabrication)
- **Stackable**: running 2 motors in the same time
- **Encoder interface**: Integrated 3kOhm pullups (configurable)
- **Configurable pinout**: Hardware configuration - soldering connections
- **Low-power**: Maximum current of 5A
  

<p><img src="extras/Images/shield_bo_v13.jpg" class="img300 img_half"><img src="extras/Images/shield_to_v13.jpg" class="img300  img_half"></p>


### Connection schematic
An electrical connection example of a BLDC motor with an encoder as position sensor. 
<p><img src="extras/Images/foc_shield_v13.jpg" class="width60"></p>
For more information about how to connect you hardware to your shield, check the full [connection example](arduino_simplefoc_shield).

## How to get hold of the <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span> 
- **Fabricate the board yourself**:  Please visit the [board fabrication](arduino_simplefoc_shield_fabrication) to find out how to manufacture the board yourself!<br>
- **Order the finished and tested board**:  Check out our [shop](https://simplefoc.com/simplefoc_shield_product).

Commit message:

UPDATE more info about the DRV8302, mcus, motors, drivers

docs/simplefoc_shield/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span>
description: "Arduino Simple Field Oriented Control (FOC) library ."
nav_order: 2
permalink: /arduino_simplefoc_shield_showcase
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---


# Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span> 

This is an open-source low-cost Brushless DC (BLDC) motor driver board intended primarily for low-power FOC applications up to 5Amps. The board is fully compatible with the Arduino UNO and all the boards with the standard Arduino headers.
The <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span>, in combination with  the <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span> provides *user-friendly* way to control BLDC motors both in hardware and software.    

### YouTube demonstration video

<iframe class="youtube" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/G5pbo0C6ujE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Features
- **Plug & play**: In combination with Arduino <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>library</span> 
- **Low-cost**: Price of €15 - [Check the pricing](https://www.simplefoc.com/simplefoc_shield_product) 
- **Max power 120W** - max current 5A, power-supply 12-24V
   - Designed for Gimbal motors with the internal resistance >10 Ωs. 
- **Stackable**: running 2 motors in the same time
- **Encoder interface**: Integrated 3kΩ pullups (configurable)
- **Configurable pinout**: Hardware configuration - soldering connections
- **Arduino headers**: Arduino UNO, Arduino MEGA, STM32 Nucleo boards...
- **Open Source**: Fully available fabrication files - [how to make it yourself](arduino_simplefoc_shield_fabrication)
  

<p><img src="extras/Images/shield_bo_v13.jpg" class="img300 img_half"><img src="extras/Images/shield_to_v13.jpg" class="img300  img_half"></p>


### Connection schematic
An electrical connection example of a BLDC motor with an encoder as position sensor. 
<p><img src="extras/Images/foc_shield_v13.jpg" class="width60"></p>
For more information about how to connect you hardware to your shield, check the full [connection example](arduino_simplefoc_shield).

## How to get hold of the <span class="simple">Simple<span class="foc">FOC</span>Shield</span> 
- **Fabricate the board yourself**:  Please visit the [board fabrication](arduino_simplefoc_shield_fabrication) to find out how to manufacture the board yourself!<br>
- **Order the finished and tested board**:  Check out our [shop](https://simplefoc.com/simplefoc_shield_product).
